# SSB-Ram-Website

# What is the purpose of the site?
The Reentry Adaptation Manual was written to assist, guide, and motivate individuals during their transition back into the community. The challenges and disadvantages for incarcerated individuals are often overlooked, and this manual functions to help with that. The general purpose of this site is to supply a simple tool to assist returning citizens navigating through the phases of reentry, and to give these individuals opportunities to and put themselves on the correct path. To this effect, the website will present the Reentry Adaptation Manual in a readable and accessible format. This will allow the website to act as the primary resource for the community to help with transition back into the society and majorly prevent recidivism. 

# What do you want the web site to accomplish?
Primarily, we would like for the website to provide resources for our target population. These individuals will have the ability to not only utilize those resources independently, but request mentorship or guidance navigating whatever challenges or conflicts they may be facing. We want the site to provide solutions to a wide variety of issues faced by the incarcerated individuals while navigating through social processes. We also would like the site to act as the central point of reference for the targeted audience i.e. the Bridgeport population and outline the steps for transition for all possible situations and/or circumstances. 

# Who is your intended audience?
Our intended audience, provided by our project leaders, are youth ages 14-24, as well as any individual currently incarcerated, on probation or parole, and in halfway houses. We are primarily concerned with the individuals situated in Bridgeport and the individuals transitioning back into the society through habitation in Bridgeport. 

# What opportunity, problem, or issue is your site addressing?
At any one time, nearly 6.9 million people are on probation, in jail, in prison, or on parole in the United States. Each year, more than 600,000 individuals are released from both state and federal prisons. Another 9 million cycle through local jails. More than two-thirds of prisoners are rearrested within 3 years of their release and half are reincarcerated. When reentry fails, the costs are high — more crime, more victims, and more pressure on already-strained state and municipal budgets. There is also more family distress and community instability. Roughly 1 in 28 children currently have a parent behind bars. Mass incarceration has been a major driver of poverty. Without mass incarceration, it is estimated that 5 million fewer Americans would have been poor between 1980 and 2014. So our goal is to help SSB RAM by creating a website that will assist them in reaching their targeted audience. Ultimately, we are trying to break the cycle of incarceration which indirectly will fight poverty as well.

# What type of content might be included in your site?  
Our site will include all content given to us by our partner, but we will present it in a simplistic manner that will keep the site users interested. The main focus of the site to  function as a Reentry Adaptation Manual. We will display the manual in a very readable, simplistic, and uncomplicated manner(no “word vomit”), which will work to clearly outline the steps to be followed for re-entry and transition into the community. We understand that different kinds of individuals will need to follow different series of steps, so we will make the website inclusive to be able to help all kinds of people. 
We will try to include a video catalog/gallery, and to do this we will either need to take our own videos, or ask the project partners if they have any material for us. A calendar would also be helpful, providing information on future events provided to us by project leaders. We could also add a database to our site which will allow users to register for weekly updates on whatever opportunities SSB RAM has for their participants. It’s important for a mission like this to constantly engage with their target audience so they can achieve their mission, and weekly updates will help achieve that engagement. The project partners asked for there to be a news ticker. We will have to do additional research and reach out to the project partners to see what functionality this would provide on our site. A blog would also be a helpful addition to the site, resulting in users obtaining first hand experiences/statements from people within SSB RAM. To make it a seamless experience for users, we will also include a drop down menu, which will result in easy access to the website’s information. Finally, we were asked to include a social media section, providing users with links to SSB Ram’s various social media platforms.

# List related or similar sites found on the Web
One of the sites that we are going to take inspiration from is the previous website for SSB Ram which is located at the following link: https://ctreentrymanual.org/. Another website that we discussed taking some inspiration from is a manual website similar to that of the DMV. Here is the link for the virginia DMV: https://www.dmv.virginia.gov/#. We can take inspiration from how they display information to the audience and how they organize the information. http://ctreentry.org/
